Draft migration guide for skimage2 (#7785)
scikit-image/scikit-image: doc/source/user_guide/skimage2_migration.md

(skimage2_migration)=

> # Transition to skimage2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Migration guide: skimage 0.x to skimage2
```

> # Migration guide: skimage 0.x to skimage2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Migration guide: from skimage to skimage2
```

:::{hint}
This document is a work in progress and still subject to change.
:::

> scikit-image is preparing to release version 2.0 under the new namespace `skimage2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
scikit-image is preparing to release version 2.0 as a new package: `skimage2`.
```

> This will affect both its import name and its package name on PyPI and elsewhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: I guess we will have an explicit section on how to install the new package and how to import it. Okay.

> Together with skimage2, we will release version 1.0.0 and 1.0.1 with the old API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alongside skimage2, we will release version 1.0.0, the last using the current API.
```

Maybe this comes after the explanation of why we are doing it (paragraph below).

> Version 1.0.1 will emit a notification (FutureWarning) on import, telling users to either upgrade to skimage2 or pin to version 1.0.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Versions 1.1.x will throw a FutureWarning upon import, as a means to notify users that
they should either upgrade to skimage2 or pin to version 1.0.x.
```
(if we agree)

> Version 1.0.1 will emit a notification (FutureWarning) on import, telling users to either upgrade to skimage2 or pin to version 1.0.0.

Reviewer: I realize now we can't do this, because then we cannot make patch releases to close bugs. So, we'd need to figure out a different scheme.

Maybe 0.XX.Y is the last version without warnings, and 1.0.0 the one with warnings. Or 1.0.X the last without warnings and 1.1.X the one with warnings.

Author: That is a very good point. Maybe we can hack something together using [pre-releases](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/specifications/version-specifiers/#handling-of-pre-releases) since they get special treatment from pip?

> We do this to make some long-outstanding, backward-incomptible changes to our API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have undertaken this to make some long-outstanding, backward-incomptible changes to the scikit-image API.
```

> We do this to clean up long-standing issue without our API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We do this to make some long-outstanding, backward-incomptible changes to our API.
```

> Some of these issues involve changes to behavior that are difficult to address with conventional deprecations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most changes were difficult or impossible to make using deprecations alone.
```

> To honor the Hinsen principle—that is, we never change results silently, unless it is to fix a bug—we introduce a new package, which gives users an explicit way of upgrading.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To honor the Hinsen principle—that is, never change results silently, unless to fix a bug—we introduce a new package, which gives users an explicit way of upgrading.
```

> Since we don't want to change behavior silently, we will introduce the new namespace which gives users an explicit way to upgrade to new behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To honor the Hinsen principle—that is, we never change results silently, unless it is to fix a bug—we introduce a new package, which gives users an explicit way of upgrading.
Users also have the option to use the two versions side-by-side while they do so.
```

Reviewer: Feel free to adjust to your style preference. Newspapers typically insert spaces, journals and books don't.

Reviewer 2: "according to the APA Style rules, neither en nor em dashes have spaces before or after the symbol" from https://libguides.royalroads.ca/punctuation-capitalization/dash

Another authoritative reference: https://www.merriam-webster.com/grammar/em-dash-en-dash-how-to-use

Author: Might be my German upbringing. I don't know where I read this, but I remember that "a—b" is more often seen in American Englisch, while "a – b" is more prevalent in Europe? 

Note that you first source talks about en-dash in context of ranges and not in context of parenthesis if I read correctly.

In any case, probably bikeshedding. :sweat_smile:

> You can find a more detailed description of our motivation and discussion leading up to this in {doc}`SKIP 4 <../skips/4-transition-to-v2>`.

Author: I'd like to keep this guide focused and concise and would rather link to motivation, etc elsewhere.
So should we update SKIP 4 or is SKIP 5 in order? :sweat_smile: I don't really see a reason not to update SKIP 4 which is still has the status "draft".

Thoughts?

Reviewer: Probably worth doing a SKIP 5, since the idea evolved quite a bit over the different proposals.

Reviewer 2: So should we publish SKIP 4, endorse it, and draft SKIP 5?

Author: Since it's still a draft, I'd say we are free to update and tweak further. I'd prefer that since having 3 SKIPs dealing with this problem might become confusing and would also duplicate a lot. 

For now I'd just keep in as a "draft". We are planning to tackle the breaking changes for skimage2 soon in a manner that allows toggling between old and new behavior (discussed a few days ago in a meeting). That way we can still make small changes to SKIP 4 if something comes up.

If we make significant changes we can address those in the "Discussion" or "Alternatives" sections. 

Does that sound reasonable?

Reviewer: Yes, let's capture what we are currently doing accurately with as little effort as possible.

## Changes in skimage2

_To be defined._

## Changes pre skimage2

We have already introduced a number of changes and deprecations to our API.
These will only be completed in during the transition to skimage2 and will continue to work in all versions pre-skimage2.

> However, updating your code to the new API will make it easier to transition to the skimage2 API.

Reviewer: We'll edit this text still; leaving it as a placeholder.
